Document Container Push Workflow (#3115)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_using-container-registries.adoc

[id="Using_Container_Registries_{context}"]
= Using container registries

You can use Podman and Docker to fetch content from container registries and push the content to the {Project} container registry.
The {Project} registry follows the Open Containers Initiative (OCI) specification, so you can push content to {Project} by using the same methods that apply to other registries.
For more information about OCI, see link:https://opencontainers.org/[Open Container Initiative Distribution Specification].

.Prerequisites

> * To push content to an organization or product, ensure your {Project} account has the `edit_products` permission.
> * To pull content, ensure that your {Project} account has the `view_lifecycle_environments`, `view_products`, and `view_content_views` permissions, unless the lifecycle environment allows unauthenticated pull.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To push content to {Project}, ensure your {Project} account has the `edit_products` permission.
* To pull content from {Project}, ensure that your {Project} account has the `view_lifecycle_environments`, `view_products`, and `view_content_views` permissions, unless the lifecycle environment allows unauthenticated pull.
```
But we say below that they have to specify both organization and product, so it isn't "or".
It might be a good idea to say from/to where the user is pulling/pushing - {Project} as opposed to other container registries instead.

ifndef::orcharhino[]
.Container registries on {SmartProxies}
On {SmartProxies} with content, the https://github.com/Katello/smart_proxy_container_gateway[Container Gateway] {SmartProxy} plugin acts as the container registry.
It caches authentication information from Katello and proxies incoming requests to Pulp.
The Container Gateway is available by default on {SmartProxies} with content.
endif::[]

.Considerations for pushing content to the {Project} container registry
* You can only push content to the {ProjectServer} itself.
If you need pushed content on {SmartProxyServers} as well, use {SmartProxy} syncing.
* The pushed container registry name must contain only lowercase characters.
* Unless pushed repositories are published in a content view version, they do not follow the registry name pattern.

> For more information about managing registry name patterns, see xref:Managing_Container_Name_Patterns_{context}[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see xref:Managing_Container_Name_Patterns_{context}[].
```
This should suffice.

This is to ensure that users can push and pull from the same path.
* Users are required to push and pull from the same path.
If you use the label-based schema, pull using labels.
If you use the ID-based schema, pull using IDs.

.Procedure
* Logging in to the container registry:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman login {foreman-example-com}
----

* Listing container images:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman search {foreman-example-com}/
----

* Pulling container images:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman pull {foreman-example-com}/my-image:<optional_tag>
----

* Pushing container images to the {Project} container registry:

> - To indicate which organization, product, and repository the container image belongs to, include the organization and product in the container repository name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To indicate which organization, product, and repository the container image belongs to, include the organization and product in the container registry name.
```
Should this be "registry" instead of "repository" as above?

> - You can address the container destination in the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can address the container destination by using one of the following schemas:
```
Consistency, we talk about schemas in the considerations.

[id="Using_Container_Registries_{context}"]
= Using container registries

You can use Podman and Docker to fetch content from container registries and push containers to the {Project} container registry.
The {Project} registry follows the Open Containers Initiative (OCI) specification, so you can push content to {Project} by using the same methods that apply to other registries.
For more information about OCI, see link:https://opencontainers.org/[Open Container Initiative Distribution Specification].

.Prerequisites
* To push content to an organization or product, a user must have permissions to create repositories.
The push permission is `edit_products`.

> * To pull content, a user must have permissions as long as *unauthenticated pull* is set to off by default in the lifecycle environment.
> The pull permissions are `view_lifecycle_environments`, `view_products`, `view_content_views`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To pull content, ensure that your {Project} account has the `view_lifecycle_environments`, `view_products`, and `view_content_views` permissions, unless the lifecycle environment allows unauthenticated pull.
```

ifndef::orcharhino[]
.Container registries on {SmartProxies}
On {SmartProxies} with content, the https://github.com/Katello/smart_proxy_container_gateway[Container Gateway] {SmartProxy} plugin acts as the container registry.
It caches authentication information from Katello and proxies incoming requests to Pulp.
The Container Gateway is available by default on {SmartProxies} with content.
endif::[]

.Considerations for pushing content to the {Project} container registry
* You can only push content to the {ProjectServer} itself.
If you need pushed content on {SmartProxyServers} as well, use {SmartProxy} syncing.

> * The pushed container name must contain only lowercase characters.

Reviewer: Consistency. We talk about container name here but we use container hash below. Does it mean that the user can use either?

> * Unless pushed repositories are published in a content view version, they do not follow the Registry Name Pattern.

Reviewer: Perhaps add a link to where the Registry Name Pattern is defined?

This is to ensure that users can push and pull from the same path.
* Users are required to push and pull from the same path.
If a user uses the label-based schema, they pull using labels.

> If a user uses the ID-based schema, they pull using IDs.

Reviewer: Rewrite this to speak to the user directly (You...)

For more information about OCI, see link:https://opencontainers.org/[Open Container Initiative Distribution Specification].

.Prerequisites
* To push content to an organization or product, a user must have permissions to create repositories.
The push permission is `edit_products`.
* To pull content, a user must have permissions as long as *unauthenticated pull* is set to off by default in the lifecycle environment.
The pull permissions are `view_lifecycle_environments`, `view_products`, `view_content_views`.

ifndef::orcharhino[]
.Container registries on {SmartProxies}
On {SmartProxies} with content, the https://github.com/Katello/smart_proxy_container_gateway[Container Gateway] {SmartProxy} plugin acts as the container registry.
It caches authentication information from Katello and proxies incoming requests to Pulp.
The Container Gateway is available by default on {SmartProxies} with content.
endif::[]

.Considerations for pushing content to the {Project} container registry
* You can only push content to the {ProjectServer} itself.

> If you need pushed content on {SmartProxies} as well, use {SmartProxy} syncing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need pushed content on {SmartProxyServers} as well, use {SmartProxy} syncing.
```

* Unless pushed repositories are published in a content view version, they do not follow the Registry Name Pattern.
This is to ensure that users can push and pull from the same path.
* Users are required to push and pull from the same path.
If a user uses the label-based schema, they pull using labels.
If a user uses the ID-based schema, they pull using IDs.

.Procedure
. Log in to the container registry:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman login {foreman-example-com}
----

. List container images:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman search {foreman-example-com}/
----

. Pull container images:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman pull {foreman-example-com}/my-image:<optional_tag>
----

. Push container images to the {Project} container registry:
* To indicate which organization, product, and repository the container image belongs to, include the organization and product in the container repository name.
* Push accepts the following formats:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman push _image_hash_ _{foreman-example-com}_/_organization_label_/_product_label_/_repository_name_[:_tag_]

> # podman push _image_ _{foreman-example-com}_/id/_organization_id_/_product_id_/_repository_name_[:_tag_]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# podman push _image_hash_ _{foreman-example-com}_/id/_organization_id_/_product_id_/_repository_name_[:_tag_]
```

Reviewer: I really hope that you've check with someone that it is actually a hash! :D Because I can be wrong about that, you know :)))

> # podman push _image_hash_ _{foreman-example-com}_/_organization_label_/_product_label_/_repository_name_[:_tag_]
> # podman push _image_hash_ _{foreman-example-com}_/id/_organization_id_/_product_id_/_repository_name_[:_tag_]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ podman push _My_Container_Image_Hash_ _{foreman-example-com}_/_My_Organization_Label_/_My_Product_Label_/_My_Repository_Name_[:_My_Tag_]
$ podman push _My_Container_Image_Hash_ _{foreman-example-com}_/id/_My_Organization_ID_/_My_Product_ID_/_My_Repository_Name_[:_My_Tag_]
```

----
* An example of a complete push:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman push _d2c94e258dcb_ _{foreman-example-com}_/default_organization/test_product/hello-world:latest
Getting image source signatures
Copying blob ac28800ec8bb done   |
Copying config d2c94e258d done   |
Writing manifest to image destination

> ----

Reviewer: I still think that the command is trivial enough and the example shouldn't be needed. @maximiliankolb @apinnick @asteflova What do you think?

Reviewer 3: I don't mind including it. I find that examples of expected output are useful because they help set expectations for correct product behavior -- if the output looks significantly different on the users' side, it's a good signal that something's not quite right.

Reviewer 2: I think we can drop this example; the output is pretty much the same for all container registries and not special to Foreman.

The expected outcome is always "exit 0". Random example that also omits stdout: https://docs.theforeman.org/nightly/Administering_Project/index-katello.html#migrating-to-external-databases_admin

= Using container registries

> Podman and Docker can be used to fetch content from container registries.
> Containers are pushed to the {Project} container registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Podman and Docker to fetch content from container registries and push containers to the {Project} container registry.
```

* The pushed container name must contain only lowercase characters.
* Unless pushed repositories are published in a content view version, they do not follow the Registry Name Pattern.
This is to ensure that users can push and pull from the same path.
* Users are required to push and pull from the same path.
If a user uses the label-based schema, they pull using labels.
If a user uses the ID-based schema, they pull using IDs.

.Procedure
. Log in to the container registry:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman login {foreman-example-com}
----

. List container images:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman search {foreman-example-com}/
----

. Pull container images:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman pull {foreman-example-com}/my-image:<optional_tag>
----

. Push container images to the {Project} container registry:
* To indicate which organization, product, and repository the container image belongs to, include the organization and product in the container repository name.
* Push accepts the following formats:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> # podman push _image_ _{foreman-example-com}_/_organization_label_/_product_label_/_repository_name_[:_tag_]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# podman push _image_hash_ _{foreman-example-com}_/_organization_label_/_product_label_/_repository_name_[:_tag_]
```
Instead of saying "image", I would be more specific about what that string represents. But I'm not sure that it's called "image hash", so you may want to ask someone more knowledgeable :)

> # podman push _image_ _{foreman-example-com}_/id/<organization_id>/<product_id>/<repository_name>[:_tag_]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# podman push _image_ _{foreman-example-com}_/id/_organization_id_/_product_id_/_repository_name_[:_tag_]
```

----

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
